# What is this?

This repo lets you stand up a ruby-based puppet environment in Docker.

This is an experiment, so caveat emptor and all that.

# Architecture

There is a single container running unicorn and N ruby puppet daemons. This
container should expose port 8140 only to an upstream reverse-proxy. This
container expects a volume mounted into /etc/puppetlabs/puppet/ssl that has
appropriate CA, cert, and key material for your installation. The container
expects a volume mounted at /etc/puppetlabs/code containing the actual puppet
code for this installation.

There is another container running nginx, that handles SSL termination,
reverse-proxying, and load-balancing. Port 8140 on this container can be
exposed to the world; this is the host/port that agents should connect to.
This container expects a volume mounted at /app that contains your CA pubkey,
CRL, server cert, and server key.

The bootstrap-ssl script will help setup and populate the volumes these
containers need.

The puppet script lets you run any puppet subcommand (e.g. "puppet cert
--sign") against the SSL files contained in the volumes. It spins up a
temporary container with our agent installed, mounts the SSL directory into
/etc/puppetlabs/ssl, runs the specified subcommand, then terminates. You can
use this script for care and feeding of the puppet deployment.

There is a docker-compose file in this repo that automatically maps the
required volumes and starts up the containers in the right order.

# Getting started

If you'd like to stand up a master with the name of "puppet", then run:

    ./bootstrap-ssl puppet

This will create a data directory, suitable for use with docker-compose. Check
it:

    find -type f data

Now you can spin things up:

    docker-compose up --build

That should map port 8140 to your docker host.

# Testing it out with a sample agent

Create a server stack with for a hostname of "loadbalancer". This is the name
the docker compose file assigns to the reverse-proxy and DNS is handled
automatically:

    ./bootstrap-ssl loadbalancer
    docker-compose up --build

Now spin up a fresh container that has our agent bits on it:

    docker-compose run puppet /bin/bash

This will run the puppetmaster image, but instead of starting up a master it'll
just startup a shell. In that container, run:

    puppet agent -t --server loadbalancer --verbose

This will terminate because the cert hasn't been signed for this new agent. In
another window on the docker host (not inside this new container):

    ./puppet cert sign --all

Once that's done, you can go back to the agent container and re-run:

    /opt/puppetlabs/bin/puppet agent -t --server loadbalancer --verbose

...and all should be well. If you want to try actually doing something with
this agent, then on the docker host:

    mkdir -p data/code/environments/production/manifests
    echo 'node default { notify {"Hello":} }' > data/code/environments/production/manifests/site.pp

Now when you run the agent, you should actually see some results. :)
